can i ask you who do you think is going to win in the u s .
i know that you , you are nonpartisan as part of your organization .
i think the smart money is that secretary clinton will be the 45th president .
how sure are you about that .
well .
the polls are saying it's about 9 out of 10 .
likely , i would probably say slightly less than that .
just because we've learnt between the columbia referendum and the brexit vote to have a little bit of humility and modesty , about pools but i'd say it's till probably 7 or 8 out of 10 , likely .
ok if trump does managed to surprise everybody .
what will that mean for foreign policy .
do you think .
well , that's so hard to know because he's .
so far outside the post .
world war ii .
mainstream of american foreign policy .
he question some of the basics from free trade to u s relations with our allies in europe and asia seems to have a slightly more relaxed approach to the possible spread of nuclear weapons .
now , it's , a little bit hard to know what's rhetoric and what would be policy .
also very hard to know who would populate trump administration .
one thing i expect your viewers don't know is every american president gets to make something on the order of 4000 appointments across the american government , so it's an enormous pool of individuals who could shape things , but all things being equal , you're looking at a form of economic nationalism and much more wariness about geopolitical involvement in the world , and what is your thought on that .
how alarming is it as its opponents will say , well , it worries me .
i believe the united states do rise benefit not just economically and strategically from free trade .
i believe the alliance system has done us extraordinary good .
it's kept the peace in europe .
it's kept things for the most part , calm in asia .
the world is growing economically .
we haven't seen message spread of nuclear weapons .
so i believe mr .
trump focuses too much on what he sees is the cost of america's involve on the world .
he doesn't focus nearly enough of what i would describe as the return on investment .
i know you've written , obviously , a lot on foreign policy .
if hillary clinton does win .
how different would she be from barack .
obama and from her husband .
how much more interventionist .
do you think she would be .
i would think slightly more interventionist that barack obama you're probably , see you in a little bit more muscular policy in ukraine , possibly a little bit more muscular policy against north korea , which is getting very close to having nuclear warheads on missiles that can reach the united states , probably in the middle east .
she will have to be a little bit more muscular in syria .
i would think perhaps the creation of one or more so called safe areas where syrian people could live and return , too .
how much is foreign policy , playing apart at all .
you think people are voting or is it all the best it can knows just the new york very recently .
last month , and it didn't seem to be featuring much apart from you know the whole security terror threat .
very little , such as foreign policy , even domestic policy .
this is the most personality driven and dominated campaign i've ever seen in my lifetime .
we're talking about character , temperament , fitness for office .
very little about the differences on tax policy or education policy .
very little and how damaging do the american reputation around the world has the debate being , it has been damaging people .
i don't care so much in whether people on the world like the united states .
but i want them to respect the united states , and i want them to want to emulate us in terms of the kind of economy we operate our politics , how we carry them out .
the basic freedoms , and so forth , and i can't think this , i cannot think this campaign has been good for the american brand .
and when we look at the strengthening position of russia , for example , and the mess that is the middle east .
can any u s president really find a solution to the middle east , and what do you think about the american allegiance with , for example , saudi and the other gulf states , one of the words i'm trying to argue .
people shouldn't use is solution .
the middle east is not a problem waiting to be solved .
it's .
a condition .
if we're lucky , we'll manage it if we're unlucky .
we wouldn't be even able to do it that i compare to the 30 years war in europe , so this is a turbulent unraveling middle east .
it's just gonna grip the new president .
so will the host of problems .
you've now got in europe , so will the question of how to manage china's rise to south china's sea in north korea's north korea's nuclear program in asia .
it's going to be an extraordinarily crowded , difficult inbox .
it is a very sensitive time , of course , i just want to turn to one particular area of interest to our viewers in south asia , and that is , of course , the situation in kashmir , because pakistan and india have accused each other of inflicting fatal casualties in unprovoked , firing across the border .
pakistan armies have unk civilians , including a baby girl was killed when indian troops fired from indian administered kashmir in pakistan , punjab province .
indian medias reports set the firing from the other side killed a border guard and a child .
each side said it retaliated and it's impossible to verify the account or to know who fired first , well .
doctor .
richard haass .
you twitted .
i saw today about the indian - pakistan situation has become very tense for those of us with families there .
none of us wants to see this escalation intention .
where do you think this is heading .
this is another problem for the door of the newest president .
absolutely and i'm worried about it because you know periodically during their mutual histories , india and pakistan have gone to war .
pakistan now has the world's fastest growing nuclear arsenal .
it houses many of the world's most dangerous terrorist .
it's , a veneer .
civilian government .
but with powerful military and intelligence agencies .
this indian government is not about to turn the other cheek .
if it sees that pakistan has allowed things to happen or carried them out .
but the unk attack , obviously antagonize people cause so many soldiers were killed .
exactly , so i think the chances , not just of an incident between india and pakistan , even beyond , as we've seeing as high and the real challenge is , can they manage it and i've been involved in efforts with the united states has got they've try to help the two of them manager it , but i actually think that we haven't been paying any attention on south asia , but i'm worried that this is one of those things that could pop up and its relationship at the height of the cold war , the u s - soviet relationship was for more developed the indian - pakistani relationship is now indian politicians have said that pakistan is a terrorist state .
effectively , it is .
this has been long .
the accusation that is housing and nurturing terrorist groups .
how is the u s intelligence on that as far as you know , pakistan is as best .
a weak state , and it is housing .
all sorts of terrorists and part of the danger is that people that they've been supporting for years in afghanistan have now , it's almost like frankenstein they've turned around the taliban , you not only have the afghan .
taliban .
you have the pakistani , taliban , and they are threat to the core .
pakistan itself , so that's exactly right .
i just want to finish with the fight against the islamic radicals .
and what we've been focusing , of course , a lot on mosul and their developments there in the last few days is the fight against is have been politically timed so that hillary clinton can't say , ok .
a democratic establishment has done .
i don't buy that for a second because no , i don't buy that for a second because in part , you know , how does this fight is gonna go .
and if it goes badly , it can hurt hillary clinton and donald trump is already saying we never should have pulled u s forces out of iraq in the first place , so i don't think it has anything to do with that , sooner or later .
unk mosul will be liberated , but that's when they really difficult .
part begins already , we see turkey , we see iran , we see the iraqi government .
we see the kurds , and we see others .
there's .
no consensus about how mosul more broadly , how iraq is to iran .
what's going to be the role of the shia militias , and so forth .
how are the unk fair , so one of the lessons we have to be learned by now is the military phase , as difficult as it is , is never as difficult is the follow-up days .
i feel were about to learn that at mosul .
yet again , just in a sentence .
are you an optimistic about where we are , because it seems that it's all full out of threats on the horizon at the risk of being self , referential .
my next book is called a world in disarray .
i think that tells you what you need to know doctor richard hass , thank you very much .
thank you .
